Now being able to conditionally add data to the host element,
so classes, styles to the host element is super helpful.
Let me style something different or work on a different user experience related thing and that is that
when we fetch something here. I want to show a spinner until we're really done fetching, until we really
have a response from the API or show some text like loading..., anything like that
and for this, I need a new state in this component
which allows me to control whether we are currently loading or not.
So loading by default let's say is false but it should in this case here always be true
whenever I fetch data out from the API because this simply takes like half a second, one second maybe,
maybe longer, depends on the internet connection and the API
of course. So I'll set loading to true right at the start of this method and I'll set it to false
whenever we're done here because then we're not loading anymore
and also when we have an error
because even if we have an error, we're done loading right.
We have an error
but we're not loading anymore.
So now that we know whether we are loading, we can use that information to show different outputs.
For example we could disable the button when we're loading, so that we can't send a new request immediately.
So I will disable it either when the input is invalid or when this loading is true.
Additionally here, I want to output loading... or some animated spinner if you want to as long
as we are loading.
Now I will go with the animated spinner and for that, you can simply google for animated CSS
spinner, you should find loading.io
where you find a broad variety of spinners you can use
and I will go with this spinner,
simply click on it and then you see all the CSS styles you will need,
you can just copy these and the HTML code that is required for that spinner.
So let's move over in the stock price again and there, I will add
all the CSS code at the bottom
and then I will wrap that HTML code for that spinner and render that whenever I want to show the spinner,
right
and it has the right class so that this styling has some effect.
So in stock price, data content should be a spinner if we are loading,
so here if this loading, this is what I check ultimately. I don't care about the other conditions,
if I'm loading, then my content will be this div sup here,
right, so this content which the spinner needs. You can always tweak this, change this, I will go with that set
up, don't want to spend too much time on the CSS and the spinner thing
but now this is my data content
if we are loading and to see that, I just need to style this a little bit. By default it's white,
now let's reuse our purple color here maybe, in all the places where we previously used white so that
we can see something there on that spinner.
So let's give this a try,
let's go back,
here's our spinner
and if I enter something here, you'll see there the spinner is
and once it's done, it goes away
and if I search for something valid, I can also spin it,
here is a valid value.
So now we have that spinner in place
and this is nice but what if we also want a spinner in the stock finder because there, we are hitting
the API too, right?
So how can we actually share and reuse code, maybe with another component?